SVINET: fast stochastic variational inference of undirected networks

**svinet** [OPTIONS]

        -help           usage

        -file <name>    input tab-separated file with a list of undirected links

        -n <N>          number of nodes in network

        -k <K>          number of communities

	-findk		estimate the number of communities

        -batch          run batch variational inference

        -stratified     use stratified sampling
                        (use with rpair or rnode options only)

        -rnode          inference using random node sampling

        -rpair          inference using random pair sampling

        -label          tag output directory

        -link-sampling  inference using link sampling

        -infset         inference using informative set sampling

        -preprocess     preprocess to run informative set sampling

        -rfreq          set the frequency at which
         * convergence is estimated
         * statistics, e.g., heldout likelihood are computed

        -max-iterations         maximum number of iterations (use with -no-stop to avoid stopping in an earlier iteration)

        -no-stop                disable stopping criteria

        -seed           set GSL random generator seed

        -gml            generate a GML format file that visualizes link communities

        -nmi <community-file-name> read a community assignment file and report mutual information scores
                        the binary 'mutual' must be in /usr/local/bin/mutual
                        Get the Lancichinetti et al. code from here:
	                https://sites.google.com/site/santofortunato/mutual3.tar.gz


Input file format for undirected graphs
---------------------------------------

See the example included file ./example/assort-75-4.txt.

Each line contains a tab-separated pair of node IDs corresponding to a
link. The file can contain duplicate links or directed links, but the
graph will be treated as undirected.

Inference
---------

See svinet -help.

*RECOMMENDED*

link sampling inference:
svinet -file network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -link-sampling

*OTHER OPTIONS*

*batch inference*

svinet -file network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -batch

*inference with random pair sampling*

svinet -file network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -rpair

*inference with random node sampling*

svinet -file network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -rnode

*inference with stratified random pair sampling*

svinet -file network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -rpair -stratified

*inference with stratified random node sampling*

svinet -file network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -rnode -stratified

Preprocessing for the informative set sampling option
-----------------------------------------------------

This sampling option is meant to be used on large, sparse networks.

- *preprocess the network*

svinet -file network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -preprocess

- *move the generated "informative set" file to the location where you will run svinet*

mv n17903-k20-mmsb-infset/neighbors.bin .

- *run inference*

svinet -file network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -infset

Saving model state
------------------

At any point during inference you can send a signal to the running
svinet process to save results including the model state and
discovered groups. The signal is sent as follows.

Find the process ID using the command "ps -ax | grep svinet" (on unix
systems). Then,

kill -TERM <process ID>

The results are also saved when the inference converges and the
process terminates.

Stopping criteria
-----------------

The avg. heldout log likelihood at network sparsity is used to assess
convergence. (Details in the paper.)

The stopping criteria may need to be adjusted for best results. The
default settings are set as a function of the network size.

For help with adjusting the stopping criteria please contact the
authors.

Parameters
----------

If parameters or options cannot be set through the documented command
line options, you may be able to set them in env.hh. In this case,
recompile to create a new svinet binary.

Most parameters used in inference are written to param.txt in the
output directory.

Output files
------------

- Each inference run writes output files to a directory. The directory
  name depends on the input options. Some examples below.

  - n17903-k20-mmsb-linksampling (link sampling)
  - n17903-k20-mmsb-rnode        (random node sampling)
  - n17903-k20-mmsb-Srnode       (stratified random node sampling)
  - n17903-k20-mmsb-rpair        (random pair sampling)
  - n17903-k20-mmsb-Srpair       (stratified random pair sampling)
  - n17903-k20-mmsb-infset       (informative set sampling)

- The file heldout.txt in the directory contain the heldout log
  likelihood on a heldout set.

  The columns are as follows:

     iteration # |
     cum. duration (secs) |
     avg. heldout log likelihood |
     # samples |
     avg. heldout log likelihood (link) |
     # link samples |
     avg. heldout log likelihood (non link) |
     # nonlink samples |
     avg. heldout log likelihood (link) at network sparsity |
     avg. heldout log likelihood (nonlink) at network sparsity |
     avg. heldout log likelihood at network sparsity

  See the paper for how we compute log likelihood at network sparsity.

- groups.txt : mixed-memberships of nodes
  	       note: the first column is a sequence
	       	     the second column is the node ID as in the input file
		     the last column is the most likely group membership
		     the columns in between are the expected
		     membership probabilities

- communities.txt : This is the community assignment file. Each node
  		    is bucketed into a "link community" based on
  		    whether it exhibited at least one link that
  		    belongs to that community.

- gamma.txt: posterior variational Dirichlet parameter (mixed memberships)

- lambda.txt: inferred posterior Beta parameters (community strengths)

Visualize link communities
--------------------------

After the model has been saved, i.e., gamma.txt and lambda.txt exist,
run the following command within the output directory to visualize the
link communities.

svinet -file ../network.txt -n 17903 -k 20 -gml

The output file is written to network.gml.

Load the file in Gephi to visualize it. Use each node's "group" member
and each edge's "color" member for "partitioning".  Use the bridgeness
to size each node. (First, copy bridgeness to a new column with column
type BigDecimal.)
